whenever is to think about rice farming
I used to think about China exclusively
but then once I saw those bright green
straws germinate out of water I was glad
to be at the source of something I
didn't know I should even expect
Indonesia is the third largest producer
of rice it is the source of livelihood
for about 20 million households there is
about 100 million people across the
country the importance of rice farming
in Indonesia is demonstrated through the
reverence of Devi 3 the rice goddess of
ancient Java and Bali when you look at
the field you're looking at complex
highly sophisticated infrastructure of
water distribution farms covered a total
of 10 million hectares throughout the
archipelago I can't think of any other
plant on the earth that may require a
similar amount of maintenance and
anticipation
stroll start to grow once fully American
water and then continue from the soil
once it's dry by the time we came to
Bali growing cycle began and when we're
leaving the crops were starting to be
harvested it was fascinating to witness
in their process not only majority of
planting grounds are used for rice but
also substantial amount of community
takes part in growing collecting and
processing of it
the hardest part of the process which
seem to be handled mostly by women
mostly middle-aged their technique was
outstanding and extremely efficient it
resembled a factory belt where each
person was responsible for one step at a
time
most of work was done without a single
word spoken everyone knew what to do and
what to do next
there was non complaining cheating or
doing less than the next person at the
same time everyone seemed to be kind of
enjoying themselves at least not
questioning why on earth they even
bother doing this there's a pure sense
of commitment and questionable mission
once the straws were collected then they
were gathered into a bunch they're
processed by smashing them against the
wooden board this process allowed the
rice seeds to fall of the nine planets I
was on the impression that every single
seed had to be captured then we never
wasted on the ground just like that seed
by seed an hour after our month-by-month
fields would grow a tons of what seemed
to be main foundation of everyone's diet
see it's ones taken away from the fields
were being left alone on the Sun in
order to drive usually in the side of
the road benefiting from the warm
surface of the asphalt from there were
packed and shortly after the runway -
distributor
you